 
SECTION-A Hrs 
Systems of Linear equations: 
Introduction, Linear equations, solutions, Linear equations in two unknowns, Systems of linear 
equations, equivalent systems, Elementary operations, Systems in Triangular and echelon form, 
Reduction Algorithm, Matrices, Row equivalence and elementary row operations, Systems of 
Linear equations and matrices, Homogeneous systems of Linear equations. (Scope as in 
Chapter 1, Sections 1.1-1.10 of Reference 1). 
5 
Vector Spaces: 
Introduction, Vector spaces, examples of vector spaces, subspaces, Linear combinations, 
Linear spans, Linear dependence and Independence, Basis and Dimension, Linear equations 
and vector spaces. (Scope as in Chapter 5, Sections 5.1-5.8 of Reference 1). 
5 
Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors, Diagonalization: 
Introduction, Polynomials in matrices, Characteristic polynomial, Cayley-Hamilton theorem, 
Eigen- values and Eigen-vectors, computing Eigen-values and Eigen-vectors, Diagonalizing 
matrices. (Scope as in Chapter 8, Sections 8.1-8.5 of Reference 1). 
4 
Linear Transformations: 
Introduction, Mappings, Linear mappings, Kernel and image of a linear mapping, Rank- 
Nullity theorem (without proof), singular and non-singular linear mappings, isomorphism. 
(Scope as in Chapter 9, Sections 9.1-9.5 of Reference 1). 
5 
Matrices and Linear transformations: 
Introduction, Matrix representation of a linear operator, Change of basis and Linear operators. 
(Scope as in Chapter 10, Sections 10.1-10.3 of Reference 1).  
5 
SECTION-B  
Probability 
Sample Space and Events, the Axioms of probability, some elementary theorems, Conditional 
probability, Baye’s Theorem, Random Variables-Discrete and Continuous, Independent 
random variables, Expectation, Variance and Covariance, Means and variances of linear 
combinations of random variables, Chebyshev’s inequality 
7 
Probability Distributions 
Joint Probability distributions, Marginal and Conditional distributions, Binomial, Poisson, 
7 
 
Page 98 of 232 
 
Uniform and Normal distributions, Normal and Poisson approximations to Binomial, Moments, 
Moment generating function. 
Two Dimensional Random Variables 
Joint distributions – Marginal and conditional distributions – Covariance – Correlation and 
Regression   –   function    of    a    random    Variable-Transformation    of    random    variables    - Central limit theorem.  
